Title: Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare - Single Player
Date: 2014-11-13
Tags: ps3, ps4, xbox-360, pc, steam, activision, gaming
Slug: call-of-duty-advanced-warfare-sp

I like to think of the Call of Shooty Shoots games as being like B movies.
They're not very good but they're just usually ridiculously silly to the point
of being somewhat enjoyable. I wasn't really expecting Advanced Warfare to be
anything different and on some levels, it really isn't. It's **still very much
Call of Duty at its heart** but with some **neat little changes that I found
enjoyable**.

So, what's different you ask? Hmm, I suppose first off, **I was actually
interested in the story**. Put briefly, it 's a story about what could happen
should a PMC (private military company) become the largest military force in
the world. Such a PMC would be, as its name suggests, private and as such, it
would have no allegiance to any one government or nation. I don't really want
to say much more than that but you can probably guess where the story ends up
going towards the second half without having much spoiled!

The biggest addition to the story that was touted by both Sledgehammer and
Activision was the inclusion of Kevin Spacey. I can't really say he was bad at
all in his role, just that he was basically his House of Cards character
without the accent so it wasn't anything I didn't expect. Oh, they also had
pre-rendered cutscenes that play between levels and oh wow, **some of the CGI
is really amazing**. There were at least one or two scenes where I genuinely
thought they had just opted to record live action scenes! So, yeah, **the
writing isn 't going to win any literature awards** but it was a nice story
with an **interesting premise**.

Gameplay! So, you're still going to get your underlying Call of Duty
experience here and if that isn't your thing, not even a little bit, you
probably aren't planning on playing this title anyway and that's perfectly
fine. The **major new addition is your exo-suit**. It 's easy to say that it's
just a "rip off of Crysis" since it has a similar feeling but the concept is
slowly becoming a real tool which has just starting the earliest deployment as
both a military tool and even as an [industrial
aid](http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg22329803.900-robotic-suit-gives-
shipyard-workers-super-strength.html#.VGPa4tyUceg "industrial aid")!

There's a few different exos that feature in the game which switch depending
on the sort of mission you're doing with varying abilities. I quite liked
**the ability to dash sideways** which doesn 't sound like much at first but
**adds a lot of maneuverability** when it comes to dodging enemy fire. The
**ability to jump tall heights** * is also a welcome addition that lends
itself well to **providing vertical encounters** that can catch you off guard
if you 're not careful. I won't spoil them but I thought there were some
really genuinely funny moments that are a result of the exos to both yourself
and teammates since they **can feel a bit overpowered** when you punch someone
who goes flying back across a nearby desk **but it 's all in good fun**.

Something I noticed about the level design is that it **feels less linear
while still retaining a mostly linear structure**. It doesn 't feel quite like
you've been lined up and are marching directly towards the enemy but rather,
you may find yourself in encounters where you're clearing the left side of a
road carefully but there's still enemies behind you on the right side of the
road or perhaps you'll be in a wide space with enemies and team mates all
around the place in no real sort of formation which was disorientating but I
really enjoyed it the more I think about it.

Oh and I almost forgot to talk about the PC port. For all you PC pals out
there, **you 'll be glad to know thar the game ships with a variety of
graphical settings. 25 in fact** from your basic refresh rate and V-Sync to
unexpectedly, the ability to toggle things like subsurface scattering, shader
preload during cinematics and the number of dynamic lights. I was quite
impressed with what was presented in comparison to all of the previous PC
ports. Mind you, the maximum FoV was 90, if I recall correctly, for
singleplayer but it goes higher for multiplayer.

I think probably the best way to sum up my experience with Advanced Warfare is
that **it does a good job of making you feel like an action hero** in a movie
a bit. You 've got pretty well defined set of enemies with obvious reasons why
they're considered evil, you'll encounter some really nice looking
environments which get blown up in pretty enjoyable setpieces and it's all
topped off at the end by being able to ride the big ol' death machine that
gets teased every so often and wreak havoc on the opposition. It's **of course
not GOTY** nor is it a huge reworking of the series but all in all, I think it
was a **pretty fun time**. Heck, I 'd even consider replaying it which is
probably a first for me.

Developer: Sledgehammer Games  
Publisher: Activision  
Released in 2014  
Platforms: PC, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One

