Title: Binary Domain
Date: 2014-12-08
Slug: binary-domain

This right here is the definition of an underrated game in my eyes. I've seen
it on sale quite a bit and it's been around for quite a few years but I never
really see anyone talk about it or recommend it! It ticks the main boxes in
what I look for which are an interesting concept backed up by an enjoyable
story, interesting characters and gameplay that I don't find boring, even 8
hours in to the title.

The story is originally what got me interested in this game. I actually pre-
ordered it back when it released based on no more than a story trailer which
generally is a dumb idea but I was gladly surprised at what I received! The
premise is that it's the future and the world is finally at a point where we
have robots to assist humanity both in industrial settings and in the home.
It's soon exposed however, that there are also **robots who have the
appearance of humans but they themselves are not even aware that they are
robots**. Your objective in the game is to track down the mastermind who has
started creating illegal types of robots and take them down but of course,
there are twists along the way that make for an interesting science fiction
story. I can 't think of a lot of games that actually have science fiction
stories that explore concepts such as the one Binary Domain looks at and I
really do hope we get more! **I actually genuinely wanted to find out what was
going on instead of feeling like I was plowing through a bunch of boring
nonsense** just to get to the ending like a lot of games I 've come across
lately.

The characters are also a part of the game I really enjoyed. Some people might
argue that they're pretty generic but I'd disagree. You've got the protagonist
who is your average white male hero, your "best bro" african american pal, an
asian love interest, a male and female British MI6 duo and a French combat
robot who all form your team assisting you along the way. I realised while
replaying that you've actually got quite a diverse set of nationalities in the
game when you think about it. Along the way, you'll run into events where your
team splits up and you're given the chance to pick who is on your team,
generally 2 members excluding yourself.

**The dev team put special care into the voice overs** so no matter what two
characters you pick, they will have completely different conversations than if
you 'd matched up other characters lending itself very well to replayability
as well as giving you the opportunity to learn more about characters you care
about! There are also times during the action where a character might ask you
a question or confirm a tactic with you and you're given the chance to respond
in a few different ways. It's a neat way of making the character feel like
they have a bit more involvement in the interactions between team mates. There
is also a trust system which, I thought was just tied into the AI and how
likely it is to aid you but it actually turns out that there are some elements
of the story that alter a bit. If certain characters have low trust, eg; from
disagreeing with them too much or shooting them accidentally, they may betray
you at certain key points in the ending so in that sense, there's a "best"
ending you can get. I didn't actually realise that even after having played
through twice since I must have had trust just high enough both times. It's a
game that still keeps on surprising me!

The game itself is a third person shooter that I really think should feel
boring but for some reason, it just doesn't. I think it's probably because the
**enemies, being robots, have this strange way of just slowly falling apart as
you pump them full of bullets.** Their legs might shatter and they 'll slowly
crawl along the ground towards you or perhaps instead you just shoot off their
arms making them sorta just run at you. Likewise, it transfers over to really
fun boss battles where it feels like you're tearing the hull of whatever
cybernetic giant you're fighting to shreds! I don't even really have a lot to
say about it other than it's strangely enjoyable despite being nothing hugely
out of the ordinary.

If you're interested in picking it up, **I can recommend the PC version but
you 'll likely want to play it with a controller.** There's nothing wrong with
the PC controls for the most part, you can aim fine and that but having played
it on PS3 the first time though and the PC version the second time, I feel
that playing with a gamepad just feels nicer. The Steam version has controller
support so it's probably the best version in terms of visuals and what not but
every other version will work just as fine. I'm definitely a fan of this
underrated game and **I really would be interested in a sequel** although the
game didn 't sell a huge number of copies. It leaves itself somewhat open
ended however so who knows what's in store.

Developer: Ryu ga Gotoku Studio  
Publisher: SEGA  
Released in 2012  
Platforms: PC, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360

