Title: Far Cry 4
Date: 2014-11-29
Slug: far-cry-4

Just a little foreword a day after having written this. I sort of got overly
passionate I think while writing and deviated away from my usual format so
this ended up being quite long and perhaps being too much of a criticism
piece. Anyway, my next bit will be back to the usual format. What can I say,
Far Cry is a series with elements that I'd like to stick around, so long as
Ubisoft doesn't fuck it up.

--

For the most part, I'm going to assume you've played Far Cry 3 or are at least
familiar with its general gameplay set up. You go around clearing outposts and
climbing radio towers which enable you to unlock weapons and skills that you
can use while exploring the world and the dangers it contains which I really
enjoyed! I was hoping that Far Cry 4 would be a sequel that is more of the
same, but improved, and that's pretty much what I got. A few minor set backs
here and there but still loads of fun!

So, I'll get what I felt was the weakest part of the game out of the way first
which was the story. I suppose the pacing was improved from 3 but honestly,
**I just couldn 't bring myself to care about the side characters.** They had
nothing interesting to them really so I didn't feel compelled to pursue their
side quests beyond the initial ones. As for the main story, you are Ajay
Ghale, Player 1 who refuses to die no matter what, who is recruited into the
Golden Path, a resistance group who want to free Kyrat from the grip of the
dictator of the region, Pagan Min.

The main story has the two heads of the Golden Army put forward a number of
choices for you to consider and solve as you work to drive out Min's army. One
side will propose a solution to the current issue at hand that respects the
heritage of the Golden Path and stays true to its age old traditions. Contrary
to those beliefs, you'll find the other side is more progressive and
interested in shedding the shackles of tradition and the outdated concepts
that come with it, for example, arranged marriages. **It 's one of those
stories where no matter what side you choose, your ally of choice will assure
you that you are doing the right thing.**

The only thing is, if both choices are "correct" and lead to driving out Min,
and they do, **then they aren 't really meaningful choices at all**. There is
no point because the end result is the same regardless. You never get to see
how their vision shapes Kyrat in the future, as far as I'm aware, so it's just
some different missions and that's about it. I can appreciate the illusion of
choice even so, I never felt like either side were right in the first place.
They both disagree but they don't seem interested in compromise, instead
viewing everything as black and white while slinging insults at the opposition
behind each other's back.

**Pagan Min however, when he does appear, is done really well**. He was always
going to be living in Vaas 's shadow from the previous game as expected but
for what he is, he's a very charismatic, yet crazy character. It's a shame he
isn't utilized more though because **he was, for me at least, the only
genuinely interesting character** who I wanted to hear more from. He 's
sadistic but also a man of honor. I'm not sure if the intention was for him to
be the villain but it was very hard for me to actually feel any hatred for
him. If anything, I was more angry at the Golden Path for their infighting
over unimportant ideals and not focusing on the larger goal.

**The gameplay is very clearly still the strongest element of the Far Cry
franchise**. It follows the same basic setup as Far Cry 3 of slowly uncovering
the map of locations to visit, with treasure to collect and collectables to
discover. You can also take on side quests from NPCs who hang out nearby,
usually small challenges like assassinate a local commander with a certain
weapon and take a photo of his body or reset the outpost and take it on again
to earn a high score. Don 't worry though, it's just in the form of a mission
you can cancel any time but adds a bit of replayability to the open world if
you've finished the game and just want to clear some outposts to cure some
boredom.

**The biggest addition for me, hands down, has to be the ability to shoot
while driving**. It sounds simple but your aiming isn 't restricted to the
front of a vehicle, you can look around in any direction be it out of your
side windows, the sun roof or even the back window. There's nothing more
immersive and enjoyable I've encountered so far than just shooting at an
oncoming enemy vehicle and following through to shooting out of your side
window just as you pass them. Or perhaps you'll find yourself being chased by
some enemy guards and shooting out the back of your vehicle only to look back
where you're driving and swerving at the last second so you don't crash. It
sounds like it shouldn't be fun but the fact that you have to juggle between
keeping your eyes on the road and potentially crashing is quite the thrill and
I could almost recommend this game based purely on that alone!

So perhaps now you can see a big itch I had when it comes to this game. You
have really great fun, even ridiculous at times, gameplay with a story that
feels like it's trying to be a serious fiction about the nature of conflict
and what extent leaders would be willing to go for their ideals to be the
dominant ones.

I mean, this is a game where you can go hunting for Snow Leopards with an MG42
which really just takes you out of feeling like you're taking part in a
completely serious liberation campaign to free Kyrat. I think at this point, I
would love to see Ubisoft get around this issue by having another well-written
villain who you side with. Hell, even flip the whole thing on its head. Have
the game try to convince you that what you're doing is wrong by tricking you
into commiting huge atrocities. I'd love to play a game like that come to
think of it. **I 'll be keeping my eyes out for a Far Cry 5!**

Developer: Ubisoft Montreal  
Publisher: Ubisoft  
Released in 2014  
Platforms: PC, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One

