---
Title: R-Type Final
Date: 2014-10-30
Developer: Irem  
Publisher: Irem (JP) / Eidos (NA) / Metro3D (EU)  
Released: 2003  
Platforms:
  - Playstation 2
---

R-Type Final is a game that I've known about for ages but still hadn't played
a huge amount until lately. It's a side scrolling shooter that was intended to
be the last in the R-Type series but was succeeded by two more games for the
PSP.

So, being a side scrolling shooter, it's an **arcade title by nature** so
there 's not a much resembling a story here, the **main draw is purely the
gameplay**. Each level is prefaced by a quote presumably relating to the
R-Type series but having not played the previous titles, I can 't say I
understand the actual conflicts going on in the backstory.

Then, ignoring all that, the **gameplay is pretty straightforward as well**.
You control a ship, of which there are many, and you shoot enemy ships with
beams and lasers. Little add ons drop from enemies and pass by you from behind
your ship and collecting them gives you more lasers and what not.

Well, if there's no story and the gameplay is fairly basic, what did I enjoy
about it?

Personally, **I loved the environments**! The first level is one that sticks
out clearly in my mind even after having played the demo of R-Type Final a
little over 10 years ago now. While traditional side scrolling shooters had
been literally that, **R-Type Final made use of the Playstation 2 's 3D
capabilities at the time**, swinging the camera around so you move all around
the stage. It becomes obvious how this affects gameplay with the first sub
boss. It consists of slowly advancing towards the crab-like boss who is
climbing up a wall diagonally **only for the camera to slowly pan around so
that the boss is behind you.** Seeing as your weapons, depending on which
coloured pickups you chose, only fire forward, this leaves you in a
defenseless position and **forces you to be careful as you wait for the camera
to swing back into a favourable position**.

The other effect of the camera is one that still gets me even now which is
that as it swings around the environment, moving the stage from being eg; left
of your ship to being above your ship, it can get a bit confusing what walls
are just part of the backdrop and which are part of the actual stage now,
leading to death should you touch them so it makes for what I still find to be
some tense moments.

As for the designs, I really liked them too. **My main draw to these sorts of
games is generally the unique and interesting boss designs and I wasn 't
disappointed** in that department either. All sorts of strange and interesting
designs such as the crab-like robotic creature I mentioned before or the Stage
1 boss which is consists of a metallic liquid of sorts, not unlike the T-1000
from Terminator 2, that will try to morph sharp spikes to pierce through the
hull of your ship.

It's neat to imagine a backstory for such a creature who is grafted to the
ceiling of what appears to be an old abandoned factory so if you're the story
of player who is quite imaginative, you might get some appeal out of R-Type
Final even just playing on Easy mode to check out all the neat designs!

Oh! I also can't leave without pointing out the time and effort spent on the
ships in the game. **There is a huge roster of 101 ships to unlock with all of
them being viewable in full 3D** in the game 's ship museum with the few that
I did unlock all having backstories that you can read which just seems like a
crazy amount of detail!

o, yeah, R-Type isn't a game that pushes the boundaries or anything but if you
ask me, it's definitely a neat side scrolling shooter with detailed
environments and interesting designs to be found even if you're not hugely
into the genre like I am.

