---
Title: "The Last Tinker: City of Colors"
Date: 2014-12-14
Developer: Mimimi Productions  
Publisher: Daedalic Entertainment  
Released: 2014  
Platforms:
  - PC
  - PlayStation 4
---

**This is a very deceiving game if you judge it by its cover.** Even though
due to the colourful art style it might look like a game for kids, it’s
actually a fairly enjoyable platformer with a vibrant environment to traverse
through, set to an enjoyable soundtrack. **It’s one of those games where it
has a bit of a silly premise but it doesn 't try to be realistic, but rather,
a game that is fun to play.**

Tinkerworld is home to Colortown which is made up of three districts. Each
houses citizens who are red, green and blue, each aided by a spirit that
embodies the emotions associated with their respective colour.

You play as Koru, a teenage monkey, who is **tricked by the mischievous purple
spirit into unleashing the bleakness** , a gray goop that starts to spread
across the land, **sucking up all colour it touches** and instilling
negativity in those who manage to escape its advance and seek refuge in the
central district.

It’s very much a story about saving the day while also aiding the citizens of
each district by turning those frowns upside down. **While the story isn 't
meant to be deep, I was quite surprised to see there’s actually some
undertones of racism** that pop up as you see the red citizens claim they are
the best, the blue citizens mope about their noir styled district and the
entire green district lock themselves away inside the homes out of fear.

Along your journey, **you help those afflicted in seeing the error of their
ways** and, with the advancing bleakness as motivation, encourage them all to
work towards rebuilding the world as it once was, a place where everyone is
treated equally. **Aww, how nice.**

As for the gameplay, **I’d call it a semi-platformer**. It’s very much in the
style of a platformer however it **tends more towards the Assassin’s Creed
style of platforming** where just hold down run and press forward to leap
across platforms or swing between gaps. While it’s all very automated, I still
enjoyed it regardless.

**Surprisingly, the combat system feels very Arkham-ish.** It has that nice
flow where you jump between enemies dodging and punching but **it’s not hugely
in depth beyond that.** For the most part, you’ll just be doing the same
combos over and over mixed in with spirit-related abilities you unlock.

**It wouldn 't be a platformer without collectibles of course.** You've got
crates and other objects to break which drop orbs that can be spent on combos
and extra health but there aren't a huge number on offer. You’ll also find
hidden paintbrushes scattered about each level that you can trade in to a
certain bushy haired painter to unlock concept art and early PS1-era features
like Big Head Mode.

The game isn't too long, clocking in at around 6 hours and it does a pretty
good job of keeping things varied and fresh. Each district is enticing with
unique audio, the game has a **very nice soundtrack** by the way, and
distinctive citizens who speak via silly cardboard speech bubbles. **If you’re
looking for something a little more laid back** to wash out that ‘modern’
colour palette that upcoming titles like The Order: 1886 continue to offer,
**you’ll likely enjoy this charming indie title**.

