Title: Weapon Shop de Omasse
Date: 2014-11-20
Slug: weapon-shop-de-omasse

I've never really seen a lot of talk about Weapon Shop! I know the first
Guild01 package got a bit of coverage but Weapon Shop wasn't localized until a
bit later on so I think beyond the Nintendo eShop itself, there wasn't a lot
of promotion of it. As much as I like the concept of it, it's not a game
you'll get hundreds of hours out of enjoyment out of but it's nice to revisit
every so often.

The setup is that, as per the title, **you run a weapon shop**. You 'll have
NPCs come to visit you requesting a weapon that suits their stats and **your
job is to craft the perfect weapon that complements each NPC** 's level of
experience and the type of attack that they're strongest at eg; piercing
attacks or slashing attacks.

**Crafting weapons takes the form of a rhythm game.** A music pattern plays
and you echo the music through tapping which hits the weapon with your
hammer.You 're tasked with keeping the correct heat while chipping off the
excess materials to form the outline of the weapon you're trying to make. It
slowly gets more challenging as you unlock more weapons to forge but I found
the difficulty curve to be pretty slow myself.

The other element of running your weapon shop is keeping stock levels in order
and weapons ready to go. **There 's a weapon polishing system** which just
consists of rubbing your stylus over a returned weapon to make it all new and
sparky again, sometimes awarding it some bonus stats. You also need materials
to be on hand for creating certain weapons so in between crafting and
polishing, that too is another piece of **micromanagement** but it 's really
not a huge problem to deal with.

Beyond the actual running of the shop, once your clients stop by the store and
you match them with a weapon that suits their needs, you can **watch the
progress of their adventures via the "Grindcast"**. It's not unlike Twitter
where it **streams NPCs pursuits and battles** all accompanied with dialogue
that fits their personality which is really neat. You 'll encounter a few main
characters who revisit regularly to play out their stories as well as just
regular old NPCs who want to prove they've got what it takes to tackle some
quests on their own.

The humour of the NPC interactions is backed by an audience laugh track which
I felt actually worked well. **Weapon Shop realises that it is quite a silly
game** and goes all in with that idea rather than just coming off as trying to
be deeper that it really is which is something I can very much appreciate. It
's the sort of game where there's **not a huge amount of depth to the game**
and you likely won 't be playing it continuously but if you see it for cheap,
you might be able to pick it up and get a few hours of enjoyment out of it
every now and then.

Developer / Publisher: LEVEL-5  
Released in 2014  
Platforms: Nintendo 3DS (eShop)

